# Lesson 0

## What is Python

Python is an open source programming language developed by the Python Software
Foundation.
It's designed to be simple to read and write, which is why it's a good first
programming language.

## How it works

Python code is too complicated for a computer to understand directly, which is
where a clever piece of software called an **interpreter** comes in, it
interprets the high level python language written by the programmer and
sends much more simple instructions to the computer.

## The Interpreter

The python interpreter can be run directly if it is installed, this allows a
programmer to write python code and have it run line at a time. Using the
interpreter is good for quick tests but for more substantial work we write files
called scripts.

## Scripts

Python scripts use the **.py** file extension and can be run by passing the name
of the script to the python program installed on the machine.

## Installing Python

For this course we won't need to have python installed on our computers, but for
personal use it can be handy to have python installed, the installation process
varys from computer to computer, but guidance can be found on pythons official
website [here](https://www.python.org/about/gettingstarted/)

## REPL

This course will use a website called
[REPL.it](https://repl.it/languages/python3)
(REPL stands for read, eveluate, print, loop), REPL allows us to work online,
without worrying about installation. Optionally an account can be made with
REPL.it, which allows for more features such as saving programs, but for our
course we don't need to.

## Python 2 or Python 3?

Both python 2 and python 3 are still widely used today, this course teaches the
newer python 3, which has more features and will be supported longer than the
older version.
It's recommended to use python 3 while following along with this course, there
are a only a few differences between the versions that will affect this course,
but for the sake of simplicity it's best to use python 3

---

**[next lesson](./Lesson01.md)**  
